OK, don’t worry if you didn’t understand anything of this French introduction. Your role as a
developer, fortunately, is not to translate your application into French, Spanish, or whatever other
language. What you can do, though, is to allow this to happen. This chapter explains how to achieve
that.
Vue itself doesn’t do much for the internationalization part. But a plugin of the ecosystem is here to
the rescue: vue-i18n.
vue-i18n helps on two topics:
• translating text
• formatting numbers and dates

vue-i18n is a plugin that you can instantiate with createI18n(). The plugin allows defining the locale
of the application, and the translations you want to use.

These translations are usually defined in a dedicated file per language. vue-i18n supports several
formats for these files, like YAML or JSON. The messages can also be declared or overridden in a
component, either in TypeScript, or in a dedicated <i18n></i18n> section of a SFC.

Even if it’s not the nicest format, JSON has a nice advantage: it can be understood by TypeScript and
provides type-safety.

```js
{
"chart": {
"title": "Score history",
"legend": "Legend",
}
}
```

This is tremendously helpful, as it provides auto-completion in your IDE when working with the
message keys (chart.t gets autocompleted into chart.title). TypeScript will also fail the build if a
language file is missing one or several keys!

```js
import { createI18n } from 'vue-i18n';
// translation files
import en from './locales/en.json';
import fr from './locales/fr.json';

// we can leverage TypeScript to type-check the translations
export type Message = typeof en;
export default createI18n<[Message], 'en' | 'fr'>({
legacy: false, // as we only want to use the "modern" composition API
locale: 'en',
messages: {
en,
fr
}
});
```

