When the application grows in size and features, loading the whole application at once can become
a problem: the application bundle is too large and takes too much time to load and parse.
Moreover, some parts of the application are only used by some users, or are used rarely, and
loading them eagerly is a waste of time and bandwidth. This is where lazy-loading is useful.

Lazy loading consists in splitting the application into multiple JavaScript bundles, and loading them
only when they are necessary

Lazy loading is configured at the component level. This means that each component can be loaded
lazily, either when it needs to be displayed inside the vue of another component, or when it is the
component displayed by a route, and the user navigates to that route. In both cases, the same
technique is used to dynamically load the component: a dynamic JavaScript/TypeScript import.

21.1 Async Components

Let’s start with the first case: a component is initially absent from the vue because it’s inside a v-if,
and we want to load it lazily and display it as soon as the v-if condition becomes true.

```js
<div>
<h1>Ponyracer</h1>
<button @click="showRaces = true">Show races</button>
<div v-if="showRaces">
<PendingRaces />
</div>
</div>
```

We saw a while ago that, when defining a component that uses other components in its template,
you have to list them in the components property (or just import them with script setup).

It turns out you can replace this declaration by a call to defineAsyncComponent and a dynamic
import, instead of a static one:

```js
const PendingRaces = defineAsyncComponent(() => import('./PendingRaces.vue'));
```

If you use Webpack (and you do if you use the Vue CLI) or Rollup and Vite (if you generated your
project with create-vue) then this PendingRaces component is going to be bundled in a separate
JavaScript file, and will only be loaded when needed.
In this case, it doesn’t change much. But imagine PendingRaces is a component that uses a very big
library: the bundler will be smart enough to package the big library with our component. And all
this will be loaded only when the component needs to be displayed. This can trim a lot from your
main bundle, and speed up the loading of your application.
