 This API is experimental and may change in the future.

When a component needs some asynchronous data, we saw that we can wait for these data in the onMounted hook.

For example, let’s say we want to display a pony and its track record.

The Pony component could look like:

```js
<div>
<h1>Pony {{ ponyModel.name }}</h1>
<TrackRecord :ponyId="ponyModel.id" />
</div>
```

TrackRecord is a component with the following template:

```js
<div>
<h2>Track record</h2>
<ul>
<li v-for="record in trackRecord" :key="record.id">{{ record.position }} - {{
record.race.name }}</li>
</ul>
</div>
```

and it fetches its track record from the server in its onMounted hook:

```js
setup(props) {
const trackRecord = ref<Array<TrackRecordModel>>([]);
const ponyService = usePonyService();
onMounted(async () => (trackRecord.value = await ponyService.getTrackRecord(props
.ponyId)));
return { trackRecord };
}
```

What happens if we remove the onMounted call and directly await the data in the setup?

```js
async setup(props) {
const ponyService = usePonyService();
const trackRecord = ref(await ponyService.getTrackRecord(props.ponyId));
return { trackRecord };
}
```

It’s slightly less verbose, but we now need to add async to our setup function. If you try this in your application, you’ll see that Vue complains in the console and does not display the component.

Indeed, when we have a component with an asynchronous setup, Vue requires to wrap its element in a Suspense component. Vue provides Suspense and globally registers it, so you can use it in any template. Let’s add it in our Pony component:

```js
<div>
<h1>Pony {{ ponyModel.name }}</h1>
<Suspense>
<div>
<TrackRecord :ponyId="ponyModel.id" />
</div>
</Suspense>
</div>
```

It does work again! Suspense waits for the completion of the asynchronous component setup and then displays it when it is ready.

You recognize (I hope!) that the Suspense component has a slot, and that we give it TrackRecord as the default content. That’s why you can also wrap the TrackRecord tag in a template element with the name #default, and it would work as well.

