Vue has a basic dependency injection system. I hesitated to write a chapter about it, as it’s not
something you’ll use every day. It’s mostly used by library authors, but it also has one handy usecase
in applications.

When an application grows, we sometimes find ourselves passing props from a component down to
its grand child, or great-grand child.
One way to avoid this is to use provide/inject. provide allows to register a value for a key in a
component, and inject allows to get the value in one of its children down in the component tree.
App provide(key, value)
...
Pony inject(key)
The key can be a string or a number (a third type, InjectionKey, is allowed, and that it will be
explained later), and the value can be whatever you want: a static value, a reactive one, a
function… If the value needs to change, then a reactive value makes sense:

```js
const color = ref('#123456');
provide('color', color);
```

A component down the tree can then inject the value.

```js
const color = inject<Ref<string>>('color');
```

The value can then be used like any reactive property. If the App component updates the value of
color, then the Pony component will be refreshed!
As you can see, I needed to type inject to indicate to TypeScript that the value is of type
Ref. It’s possible to do better by using a key of type InjectionKey. InjectionKey is in fact
just a Symbol, a special primitive data type in the browser, which has the particularity to create
unique values. That makes this type a perfect candidate for a key, as you’re sure it will be unique:

```js
const symbol1 = Symbol();
const symbol2 = Symbol('hello');
const symbol3 = Symbol('hello'); // symbol2 !== symbol3
```

So we create an InjectionKey:

```js
import { InjectionKey, Ref } from 'vue';
export const colorKey: InjectionKey<Ref<string>> = Symbol('color');
```

