The first use-case was about avoiding props drilling. But to be honest, you don’t really need
provide/inject for this use case: you can simply use a function useColor() that returns a reactive
color, and you have the same result.
But inject is in fact a bit more powerful:
• it starts by looking into the parent component if there is a provided value for this key
• if not, it looks into the grand-parent
• etc.
• if not, it looks into the root component
• if not, it looks into the provided values of the application
Of course, it stops looking when one provider is found, and returns its value.
In the end, if no provider was found, it returns an undefined value and logs a warning (except if you
provided a default value):

This hierarchy of providers can be handy if you want to override the provided value for a subset of
components.

23.4 Plugins and provide/inject

Vue has a plugin mechanism. Plugins are installed using app.use(plugin). The router for example
uses this mechanism:

```js
createApp(App)
.use(routerPlugin)
.mount('#app');
```

When you want to grab the router in a component, you use useRouter():

```js
const router = useRouter();
function saveAndMoveBackToHome() {
// ...
router.push('/');
// or
router.push({ name: 'home' });
}
```

Under the hood, the router, like most plugins, uses provide/inject!
When you create the router using createRouter(), it provides the router to the application.
useRouter() is fairly simple and only does return inject(routerKey). In fact, you can even use that
in your component to get the router instance ᾑ.
This is the most useful use-case for provide/inject, and it explains how most plugins work.

