
(code, styles, images, fonts).
For a long time, Webpack was the undisputed favorite. Webpack comes with a simple but super handy feature: it understands all the JavaScript module types that exist (modern ECMAScript modules, but also AMD or CommonJS modules, formats that were existing before the standard).

This understanding makes it easy to use pretty much any library you can find on the Internet (most often on NPM): you just install it, import it in one of your files, and Webpack takes care of the rest.

Even if you use libraries with completely different formats, Webpack happily converts them and
packages all your code and the code of the libraries together into one giant JS file: a bundle. This is a super important task, because even if the standard defined ES Modules back in 2015, most browsers have been supporting them very recently!

The other task of Webpack is to help during development, by providing a dev server and watching your project (it can even do HMR, a fancy word that stands for Hot Module Reloading).

When something changes, Webpack reads the entrypoint of our application (main.ts for example), then it reads its imports and loads these files, then it reads the imports of the imported files and loads them… You get the idea! When everything is loaded, it re-bundles everything into one large file, both your code and the imported libraries from your node_modules, changing the module format if needed. The browser then reloads to display our changes ὠ. This can be time-consuming when working on large projects with hundreds or thousands of files, even if Webpack comes with caches and heuristics to be as fast as possible.

Vue CLI (like a lot of tools out there) is using Webpack for most of its work, both when building the application with npm run build, or when running the dev server with npm run serve.
This is great as the Webpack ecosystem is incredibly rich in plugins and loaders: you can do pretty much what you want with it. On the other hand, a Webpack configuration can quickly get a bit overwhelming with all these options. If I talk about Webpack and what bundlers do, it’s because we have serious alternatives nowadays, and it can be hard to understand what they do, and what are their differences. To be honest, I’m not sure that I understand all the details myself, and I’ve contributed quite a lot to Vue and Angular CLIs, both heavily based on Webpack! But let me try to explain anyway.

A serious contender is Rollup. Rollup intends to keep things simpler than Webpack, by not doing so much out of the box, but often doing it faster than Webpack. Its author is Rich Harris, who is also the author of the Svelte framework. Rich wrote a famous article called "Webpack and Rollup: the same but different". His guideline is "Use Webpack for apps, and Rollup for libraries". In fact, Rollup can do a lot of what Webpack does for production builds, but it does not come with a dev server that can watch your files during development.

Another incredible alternative is esbuild. Unlike Webpack and Rollup, esbuild itself is not written in
JavaScript. It is written in Go and compiled to native code. It has also been designed with
parallelism in mind. That makes it way faster than Webpack and Rollup. Like 10x-100x faster ᾒ.
So why don’t we use esbuild instead of Webpack? That’s exactly what Evan You, the author of Vue, thought when developing Vue 3. He had another brilliant idea. In 2018, Firefox shipped the support of native ECMAScript Modules (often called native ESM). In 2019, it was Node.js, and then most browsers followed. Nowadays, your personal browser can probably understand native ESM
without issues. Evan imagined a tool that would serve files as native ESM to the browser, doing the heavy lifting with esbuild to transform source files into ESM files if needed (for example for
TypeScript or Vue files or legacy module formats).
Vite (the French word for "fast") was born.