
The idea behind Vite is that, as modern browsers support ES Modules, we can now use them
directly, at least during development, instead of generating a bundle.

So when you load a page in the browser when developing with Vite, you don’t load a single large file of JS containing all the application: you load just the few ES modules needed for this page, each in their own file (and each over their own HTTP request). If an ES module has imports, then the browser loads these imports as well.

So Vite is mainly a dev server, in charge of answering the browser requests, and responding with the requested ES modules. As we may have written our code in TypeScript, or using SFC in .vue extension (see below), Vite sometimes needs to transform the files on our disk into a proper ES module that the browser can understand. This is where esbuild comes into play! Vite is built on top of esbuild, and when a requested file needs to be transformed, it asks esbuild to do the job and then sends the result to the browser. If you change something in a file, then Vite only sends the updated module to the browser, instead of having to rebuild the whole bundle as Webpack-based tools do!

Vite also uses esbuild to optimize a few things. For example if you use a library with a ton of files, it "pre-bundles" it into a single file using esbuild and serves it to the browser in one request instead of a few dozens/hundreds. This pre-bundling is done once when starting the server, so you don’t pay the cost every time you refresh.

The fun thing is that Vite is not tied to Vue: it can be used with Svelte, React and others. In fact some other frameworks now recommend to use Vite! Svelte, from Rich Harris, was one of the first to do so, and now officially recommends it.

esbuild is really good for the JS bundling part, but it is not (yet) capable of splitting the application in several bundles, or properly handling CSS (whereas Webpack and Rollup do it out of the box). So it is not suited for bundling the application for production. That’s where Rollup comes into play: Vite relies on esbuild during development, but uses Rollup to bundle for production. Maybe in the future it’ll use esbuild for everything.

Vite is more than just an esbuild wrapper. As we saw, esbuild transforms files really fast. But Vite does not ask esbuild to transpile the requested files on every reload: it leverages the browser cache to do as little as possible. So if you load a page that you already loaded, it will be displayed in an instant. Vite also comes with a ton of other features, and a rich plugin ecosystem

An important note: esbuild transpiles TypeScript to JavaScript, but it does not compile it: it
completely ignores the type-checking part! That makes it super fast, but it also means that you have no typechecking from Vite during development. To check that your application properly compiles, you have to run Volar (vue-tsc), usually when building the application.

Are you excited? Because I am! Vite comes with project templates for React, Svelte and Vue, but the Vue team started a small project on top of Vite called create-vue. And that project is now the official recommendation when you start new Vue 3 projects.

