Vitest is a really cool solution: it’s really similar to Jest (same API, based on jsdom) but faster and more modern.

If you generate your project with create-vue instead of Vue CLI, this is the unit testing solution
you’ll get. Our pro pack exercises all use Vitest of course: you’ll find all kinds of tricks (and
configuration tips) to test everything in your projects!

Vitest has been built to leverage Vite to handle all the transformations when running the unit tests. So you don’t need ts-jest or @vue/vue3-jest. And Vitest works great with ECMAScript Modules, whereas Jest… not so much.

Vitest gives us a few functions to declare our tests:
• describe() declares a test suite (a group of tests)
• test() declares a test
• expect() declares an assertion

All the configuration options goes into either a vitest.config.ts file, or directly inside the Vite
configuration, in a test property.

A basic JavaScript test for a simple class:

pony.ts

```js
class Pony {
constructor(
public name: string,
public speed: number
) {}
isFasterThan(speed: number): boolean {
return this.speed > speed;
}
}
```

pony.spec.ts
```js
describe('Pony', () => {
test('should be faster than a slow speed', () => {
const pony = new Pony('Rainbow Dash', 10);
expect(pony.isFasterThan(8)).toBe(true);
});
});
```

The expect() call can be chained with a lot of methods, named matchers, like toBe(), toBeLessThan(), toBeUndefined(), etc. Every method can be negated with the not property of the object returned by expect():

```js
describe('Pony', () => {
test('should not be faster than a fast speed', () => {
const pony = new Pony('Rainbow Dash', 10);
expect(pony.isFasterThan(20)).not.toBe(true);
});
});
```

The test file is a separate file from the code you want to test, usually with an extension like .spec.ts. The test for a Pony component written in a Pony.vue file will likely be in a file named Pony.spec.ts. Where to put the .spec.ts files is a matter of preferences: some people like to put them next to the file being tested in a __tests__ directory, others prefer putting them in a separate, dedicated directory. I tend to do what create-vue does by default, and use a dedicated __tests__ directory.

Often, all the tests written by calling test() need a common context to be prepared before the test. You can use the beforeEach() function to set up this common context before each test. If I have several tests on the same pony, it makes sense to use beforeEach() to initialize the pony, instead of copy/pasting the same thing in every test.

pony.spec.ts

```js
describe('Pony', () => {
let pony: Pony;
beforeEach(() => {
pony = new Pony('Rainbow Dash', 10);
});
test('should be faster than a slow speed', () => {
expect(pony.isFasterThan(8)).toBe(true);
});
test('should not be faster than the same speed', () => {
expect(pony.isFasterThan(10)).toBe(false);
});
});
```

There is also an afterEach function, but I rarely use it…

One last trick: Vitest lets us create fake objects (mocks or spies, as you want), or even spy on a
method of a real object. We can then do some assertions on these methods, like with
toHaveBeenCalled() that checks if the method has been called, or with toHaveBeenCalledWith() that checks the exact parameters of the call to the spied method.

