When you execute your tests, it launches either Electron, Chrome, Firefox or Edge. Or you can launch them in headless mode (i.e. without displaying any window) with:

```js
npm run test:e2e -- --headless
```

which is very handy for running them on a Continuous Integration platform.

Cypress is full of really nice features:
• easy to set up
• easy to mock HTTP responses
. easy to test different viewports (awesome️ for responsive applications)
• nice enough DSL

The time-travel debugging is the feature that won my heart: Cypress takes snapshot at each step of your tests, so you can debug very easily. Just by hovering the step of the failing test, you see exactly
the state of the application and can play with it.

You will write your test suite using Mocha, and you’ll see that it really looks like what we had in unit tests with Vitest, plus the Cypress API to interact with your app.

Cypress gives us a cy object, with a few utility methods like visit() to go to a page. Then you have get(selector) to select all the elements matching a CSS selector. Or contains(selector, text) if you want an element with a specific text

You can use several methods on the object returned by these methods, like should('contain', text) or should('be', 'not.displayed'). Or methods like click() and type() to act on the element.

You can also fake the API calls, and check if the requests are sent at the right time.

For example, let’s say the search page of the application displays a title, and a search field allowing to find a race by calling a distant API when a user clicks on the search button.

A simple test would look like this:

```js
describe('Search', () => { it('should display a title', () => {
cy.visit('/search'); cy.contains('h1', 'Ponyracer'); }); it('should search a
race', () => { // mock the API call cy.intercept('GET',
'api/races?query=London', []).as('searchRace'); cy.visit('/search'); // search
the London race cy.get('input').type('London'); // click on the search button
cy.get('button').click(); // we should have an API call cy.wait('@searchRace');
}); });

```

These tests can be quite long to write, but they are really useful. You can do all sorts of great things with them, like recording videos, taking a screenshot and comparing them over time, at the pixel level, with something like Percy, etc.

With unit tests and e2e tests, you have the keys to build a robust and maintainable application!

 



