Vue offers a bunch of directives that you can use in your templates (v-if, v-for, v-model, etc.), but
you can also build your own!

This can be very handy to encapsulate a behavior that you want to reuse several times, but that is
not really a component (because it has no template) nor a composable (because its purpose is to
manipulate the DOM).

For example, in the previous chapter, we saw how to focus an element in the template thanks to
template references. This code works perfectly, but we would have to duplicate it every time we
want to focus an element.

How can we do better? With a directive!

To define a directive, you create an object that can have several properties, corresponding to the
directive lifecycle hooks you want to use.

27.1 Lifecycle hooks

A directive has the same lifecycle hooks as a component. But, instead of using functions like
onMount, onUnmount, etc. in a setup, we are going to use properties like mounted, unmounted, etc. These
hooks are called with the element they are applied on as the first parameter.

So our focus directive is as simple as:

```js
import { Directive } from 'vue';
export const vFocus: Directive<HTMLInputElement> = {
// el is of type `HTMLInputElement`
// as vFocus is declared as `Directive<HTMLInputElement>`
mounted(el) {
el.focus();
}
};
```

We can then use the directive as follows:

```js
<input v-focus name="login" />
```

As for components, you have to declare the directive in the script part. If you are using the script
setup syntax, you simply have to import it. That’s why the name matters: this is how Vue
understands what is v-focus in the template.

```js
import { vFocus } from '@/directives/Focus';
```

If you don’t use script setup, then you have to declare the directive in the directives option of the
component.




