If you’re developing a webapp, you know that displaying things is just one part of the job: you also have to deal with user interactions. To allow this, the browser fires events, which you can listen to: click, keyup, mousemove, etc. Vue is here to help us!

```
<button v-on:click="save()">Save</button>
```

```
<button @click="save()">Save</button>
```

```
<button @click="firstname = 'Cédric'">Save</button>
```

However, I would not advise you to do this. Using functions is a better way of encapsulating the behavior: it makes your code easier to maintain and test, and it makes the template simpler.

The event can be emitted by the element itself or by one of its descendants. Vue will react to events that bubble up. Consider the template:

```
<div @click="save()">
  <button>Save</button>
</div>

```

```
function saveName(name: string, event: Event) { // Do something with the name
event.preventDefault(); event.stopPropagation(); }
```

Even though the user clicks on the button embedded inside the div, the save() function will be
called, because the event bubbles up.
You can give parameters to the function call of course. Oh, and you can access the event in the
function called! You just have to pass $event to your function:

```
<button @click="saveName('Cédric', $event)">Save</button>
```
\
```
function saveName(name: string, event: Event) {
// Do something with the name
event.preventDefault();
event.stopPropagation();
}
```

```
<button @click.prevent.stop="save()">Save</button>
```

9.4.2. Keyboard modifiers

One cool feature is that you can also easily handle keyboard events with a few modifiers you can
add to the keyboard events, like keyup, keydown, keypress:
• .esc which activates only if the key is esc
• .delete which activates only if the key is delete
• .space which activates only if the key is space
• .up which activates only if the key is up
• .down which activates only if the key is down
• .left which activates only if the key is left
• .right which activates only if the key is right
• .[whatever character you want], for example .b which activates only if the key is b

_9.4.3._ _.exact_ _modifier_

```
<!-- `save` is called on ctrl+click, ctrl+alt+click, etc. -->
<button @click.ctrl="save()">Save</button>
<!-- `save` is called only on ctrl+click -->
<button @click.ctrl.exact="save()">Save</button>
```

9.4.4 Mouse Modifiers

You also have the .left, .middle and .right modifiers if you want to only listen to a specific mouse event.
For example:

```
<button @mousedown.right="save()">Save</button>
```

9.4.5. .once modifier

If you want an event listener to execute only once, you can add the .once modifier:

```
<button @click.once="save()">Save</button>
```


9.4.6. .passive modifier

The .passive modifier is a bit different: it’s here to tell the browser that the default behavior
shouldn’t be prevented, and that it should be done without waiting for the listener function to
return. It can be very handy if you want to do something on an event that happens very often, like scroll or mousemove, but don’t want to slow down the scrolling of your application:

```
<!-- the scroll event's default behavior (scrolling) will happen -->
<!-- immediately, instead of waiting for `onScroll` to complete  -->
<!-- in case it contains `event.preventDefault()`                -->
<div @scroll.passive="onScroll">...</div>
```

9.4.7. .self modifier

If you want an event listener to execute only when the event is from the element where you
declared it, and not bubbling from one of its children, you can add the .self modifier:

```
<!-- calls `save` only if the click is on the `div` -->
<!-- and not if it is on the `button` -->
<div @click.self="save()">
<button>Save</button>
</div>
```

9.4.8. .capture modifier
To be exhaustive, there is one last modifier, that we don’t often use: .capture. It allows capturing an event bubbling from a child, and to handle it first in its handler before letting the child handling it itself:



