```
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Ponyracer</h1>
    <h2>{{ numberOfUsers }} users</h2>
  </div>
</template>
<script lang="ts">
  import { defineComponent } from "vue"
  export default defineComponent({
    name: "App",
    setup() {
      return { numberOfUsers: 146 }
    },
  })
</script>

```

Note that the wrapping div is not necessary as Vue templates now allow having several root
elements (that was not the case until Vue 3.0).

So when you want to update your reactive property, you have to update its value. But you can still use the ref in the template as is, without having to use .value: Vue is automatically unwrapping the value for you.

One important fact to remember: if we try to display a property that does not exist, then, instead of displaying undefined, Vue is going to display an empty string. The same will happen for a null property.
Let’s say that, instead of a simple value, our first component has a more complex user object,
reflecting the current user

What happens if we have a typo in our template, with a property that does not exist in the
component?

<template>
<div>
<h1>Ponyracer</h1>
<!-- Note the typo: `users` instead of `user` -->
<h2>Welcome {{ users.name }}</h2>
</div>
</template>
```
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Ponyracer</h1>
    <!-- Note the typo: `users` instead of `user` -->
    <h2>Welcome {{ users.name }}</h2>
  </div>
</template>

```

When loading the app, you will have an error, telling you that this property does not exist:

<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">'[Vue warn]: Property "users" was accessed during render but is not defined on
instance'</mark>

You only get this warning when you open your application in your browser. But,
sadly, the compilation raises no warning if you have an error in a template, unlike
some other frameworks like Angular. Hopefully you also have unit tests in your
application that would catch the problem early enough, before going to
production. We’ll see how to unit test components and their template in a few
chapters.
There are some initiatives from the community to have template type-checking at
compile time though:
• Volar (the most advanced currently, that we use in our projects, this ebook
examples and the Pro Pack exercises)
• VTI from the Vetur team
• VueDX All these projects are experimental but worth giving a try.
