
```
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Ponyracer</h1>
    <Races />
  </div>
</template>
<script lang="ts">
  import { defineComponent } from "vue"
  export default defineComponent({
    name: "App",
  })
</script>

```

As you can see, we added the Races component in the template, by including a tag whose name
matches the name we defined for the Races component.
Buuuuuut, that will not work: your browser will not display the races component.
If you open the developer console, you’ll see:

<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">_'[Vue warn]: Failed to resolve component: Races'_</mark>

9.2.1. Local registration

But the fix is simple. In our App component, we can add a components field, to register the
components we are using in its template. The syntax is very straightforward: components is an
object, and you can add a key, which is the name of the element you want to use in your template, and a corresponding value, which is the type of the component you want to use to replace this element.

Here we add a Races key, as this is the element we added in our template, and a Races value, the component we want to use. Of course, we have to import the Races component from the file we declared it.

```
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Ponyracer</h1>
    67
    <Races />
  </div>
</template>
<script lang="ts">
  import { defineComponent } from "vue"
  import Races from "@/chapters/templates/Races.vue"
  export default defineComponent({
    name: "App",
    components: {
      Races: Races,
    },
  })
</script>

```

It would also work to use <races></races> in the template, but most developers stick to the original
PascalCase name.
The key could be completely different though. You could choose to use { RacesList: Races }, and then use <RacesList></RacesList> in the template. You could also use <races-list></races-list>, the kebab-case version, in the template. It would definitely work, but it can be a bit surprising for your colleagues. We usually stick to the name of the component.
Note that the ES6 syntax allows writing { key } instead of { key: key } as you may recall from our
first chapters. We can thus slightly simplify our declaration to { Races } instead of { Races: Races }. We’ll use the shorter version from now on.

9.2.2 Global Registration

If you use a component in a lot of other components, it gets a bit boring to have to register your component every single time.

Vue offers a global registration that can be leveraged in that case. In your main file, you can use the component function to register one or several components globally. These components are then available in all the templates without having to register them in each component.

```
createApp(App) .component('CustomButton', CustomButton) .mount('#app');

```

