Let’s stop to talk about styles and CSS for a minute. I know right? Why talk about CSS?

Well because Vue (and Vite or Vue CLI) can do a lot of things for us behind the scenes.

As a Web developer, you often add CSS classes to elements. And the essence of CSS is that it will cascade. That’s sometimes what you want (to change the font everywhere in your app for example), and sometimes not. Imagine you want to add a style on a selected element in a list: you will usually use a very narrow CSS selector in your CSS, like li.selected. Or an even narrower one, using conventions like BEM, because you just want to style the selected element in a specific part of your app.

By default, when you add styles to your component (with the style part of an SFC), the styles are global, and applied to the complete application.

That’s where Vite or Vue CLI can be useful. The styles can be applied to this component and only this one. How does it achieve this?

12.1 Scoped Styles

when the style is only applied to the component

12.2 Module styles

Vue also supports module styles. This feature is based on the CSS Modules specification and allows using $style in your template and in your code! This is a fairly popular solution in some ecosystems (like React), but I’ve never used it 😀.

12.3 v-bind in css

You can also use v-bind directly in the CSS to bind a CSS value to a property of your component:

```js
<script setup lang="ts">
import { ref } from 'vue';
const ponyModel = ref({
name: 'Rainbow Dash',
imageUrl: '',
color: 'blue'
});
</script>
<style scoped>
.highlight {
color: v-bind('ponyModel.color');
}
</style>
```

12.4 v-deep, v-global and v-slotted

SFC scoped style offers some custom CSS extensions for specific edge cases.

Sometimes you want to explicitly style a child component. As a scoped style is only applied to the current component, how can we do that?

Enters ::v-deep(), or :deep() as a shorthand alternative:

```js
/* deep selectors */
::v-deep(.foo) {}
/* shorthand */
:deep(.foo) {}
```

On the opposite, if you want a rule to be global, you can use ::v-global() or :global():

```js
/* one-off global rule */
::v-global(.foo) {}
/* shorthand */
:global(.foo) {}
```

The last extension allows targeting slot content. In Vue 3, the slot content is not affected by the scoped styles. If you want to explicitly target a slot content, you can use ::v-slotted() or :slotted():

```js
/* targeting slot content */
::v-slotted(.foo) {}
/* shorthand */
:slotted(.foo) {}
```

