How can we navigate between the different components? Well, you can manually type the URL and reload the page, but that’s not very convenient. And we don’t want to use "classic" links, with <a
href="…"></a>. Indeed, clicking on such a link makes the browser load the page at that URL, and restart the whole Vue application. But the goal of Vue is to avoid such page reloads: we want to create a Single Page Application. Of course, there is a solution built-in. In a template, you can insert a link by using the component RouterLink pointing to the path you want to go to. The RouterLink component expects a prop, named to, representing the path you want to go to, or an array of strings, representing the path and its parameters. For example in our Races template, if we want to navigate to the Home, we can imagine something like:

```js
<RouterLink to="/">Home</RouterLink>
```

You can also use the name of the route:

```js
<RouterLink :to="{ name: 'home' }">Home</RouterLink>
```

The RouterLink component sets a CSS class .router-link-active (or a class of your choice) automatically if the link points to the current route. This allows you, for example, to style a menu item as selected when it points to the current page.

“It’s also possible to navigate from the code,
by using the router object returned by useRouter()
and its method push().
It’s often handy when you want to redirect your user after an action”

Excerpt From
Become a ninja with Vue
Ninja Squad
This material may be protected by copyright.

