It is also possible to have parameters in the URL, and it’s really useful to define dynamic URLs. For example, we want to display a detail page for a pony, with a meaningful URL for this page, like races/id-of-the-race/ponies/id-of-the-pony.

To do so, let’s define a route in the configuration with two dynamic parameters.

```js
{
path: '/races/:raceId/ponies/:ponyId',
name: 'pony',
component: Pony
},
```

We can then define dynamic links with RouterLink:

```js
<RouterLink :to="{ name: 'pony', params: { raceId: race.id, ponyId: pony.id } }">
Pony</RouterLink>
```

Of course, the target component needs to access those parameters to be able to load and display the pony with the given identifier. To get the value of the parameters, the route object returned by useRoute() represents the current route and can be used inside your setup. It is a reactive reference, with a params property. This field has all the parameters of the URL.

```js
const pony = ref<PonyModel | null>(null);
// ... fetch the pony details
const route = useRoute();
const ponyId = route.params.ponyId as string;
getPony(ponyId).then(fetchedPony => (pony.value = fetchedPony));
```

You can also access the query parameters with the query property.

The router will reuse your component if it can! Let’s say our app has a "Next"
button to see the next pony. The URL will change from /ponies/1 to /ponies/2 for
example when the user clicks. In that case, the router won’t destroy and re-create
a new Pony component. Instead, it will reuse the Pony component already
displayed. That means the setup will not be called again! If you want your
component to update for this kind of navigation, you have to use a watcher, or a
computed property based on route!

```js
const route = useRoute();
const pony = ref<PonyModel | null>(null);
watchEffect(
// every time the ID changes
// use a watcher to fetch the pony details
async () => {
const ponyId = route.params.ponyId as string;
pony.value = await getPony(ponyId);
}
);
```

