

help me write a blog

It was 15th June 2024 5PM, I was sitting with my friends and we were talking about planning a trip as their were 4 days of office leaves. i told them trip is not possible because my vehicle is expiring by 16th June after that i won't drive as i can't renew during eid holiday because all of the rta offices are closed. someone said lets leave today night and will be back by tomorrow night til the time vehicle is valid. big question was where to. one of my friend name heart said let's go watch milky way in abu dhabi. i checked the distance it was around 240km. we all said okay. 4 friends with there wife. aakash shilpa, heart riya, vijendra manisha, sunny sangita and his children jivansh. we started packing and left for the trip around 9: 30pm from dubai to al qua milkyway destination. 2 cars mine and vijendra. but as it was unplanned trip unexpected things were bound to happen. I use waze application for navigation. in my waze application, there is a option to avoid toll and it was checked to true. as it was checked to true that toll roads will not come on the way. waze application showed me totally different path through the remote area not through the main abu dhabi. no car was on the road except our car and on both side it was completely dark because of desert but there were street light. it was around 10:10PM, everyone was afraid that where we are heading to. we were making silly jokes that what if our car stops here. vijendra's car was following the right pay via abudhabi way. we were continuously on call with them that we took the remote area and somewhere in future we will meet but don't know when.  it was too dark on both left and right side. only thing that kept us going was street light. after driving for almost 150m-160km. vijendra's car also came on remote path after crossing abu dhabi. after driving for a few km there was a point when no street lights wes there. it was completely dark outside with card headlights on. vijendra and me we both parked our car on the way and we all came out of the car and sat along the road. we all ate samosa with cold drinking and thinking whether to go ahead or not. we were too scared of the dark and still journey was 50-60km ahead. we had fun while sitting on the road. 
finally we decided to go and watch the milky way. somehow we kept our cool and started driving. after driving for 30-40 mins. we reached there and the view was masmerizing, stunning. i can't express in words. always wanting to see the blanket of stars in the sky and this was the day finally when galaxy was above me. millions of stars i could see with naked eyes. we stoped our cars and took out our mat and pillows from car. we all lay on the mat and saw millions of stars in the sky. we could see stars falling falling from the sky. they were running faster than the world fastest car. i just can't explain in words. after appreciating the beauty we all played antakshiri. everbody sand in the dark desert below the skies. i could still hear the antakshiri songs while writing this. once the night was over. sun was coming out slowly like a baby is taking his first steps. we all captured our moments with lots of photos. dark is over. view was great. we could see desert around us. smell of sand. riya bhabhi cooked maggie for us. everyone had maggie in the desert. i could see happiness on everyone's face. everyone's face had glow. we left around 6:30am. i was not able to drive because no one slept. after driving for an hour we went to corniche beach everyone was feeling sleepy. it was too hot in abu dhabi. suddenly all the energy changed into tiredness beacuse of high temprature in june summer. we took shower changed cloth and went to marina mall to get some AC coolness. everybody ate pizzaa and burger. I slept while eating. my wife shilpa also slept along with me.  slowly slowly everbody took some sleep. i don't know what everyone was doing while i was sleeping :P. when i woke up around 12pm. vijendra's said i am leaving because his wife(manisha bhabhi) isn't feeling well. herat and riya also had to leave because they came with vijendra's. now me my wife sunny paaji and his wife left. we thought what we should do. outside temperature was high. we decide we will be in the mall till 3pm untill temperature will get little low. we all did shopping in carrefour. had coffe from costa coffee. we checked the time and it was 3pm. we went outside in our car and decided to visit gurudwara, mosque and temple and end the day. reached gurunank darbar gurudwara. i was happy because being a punjabi seeing 