In a well-designed web application, the state should be stored on the server, and in the URL. You
should be able to refresh any page (and thus restart the application), and get back to where you
were before: the URL allows remembering where you were, and the data displayed by that page is
stored on the server and retrieved thanks to the URL parameters.

The various components on that page however, once the data has been loaded from the server,
often need to share some state. And part of the state can even be global to the whole application,
like for example the currently logged-in user: the navbar needs to display it and allow logging out,
	the home page needs to display a greeting message, any other component might need it to know if
the user is allowed to perform some action.
So, how can components share state?
You can of course use props and emits: a parent component passes some state to a child with props,
and the child emits events to its parent so that the state can be modified. That is fine for parentchild
associations, but it can be tedious when the state must be shared between many sibling
components, or when the tree is deep. And for global state, which needs to be shared by completely
unrelated components, displayed on various routes, that doesn’t fit the bill.
The solution in such cases consists in using the store pattern.

Composition API to declare a reactive property that both components will use. I usually put this
piece of state in a "service", but you may call it a store as well.

```js
import { ref } from 'vue';
import { UserModel } from '@/models/UserModel';
const userModel = ref<UserModel | null>(null);
async function authenticate(login: string, password: string): Promise<UserModel> {
// call the HTTP API
// in case of success, store the logged-in user
userModel.value = response.data;
}
function logout(): void {
// ...
userModel.value = null;
}
export function useUserService() {
return {
userModel,
authenticate,
logout
};
}

```


Then the components which want to access the user can do so very easily:

```js
<template>
<div v-if="userModel">Hello {{ userModel.name }}!</div>
<div v-else>Welcome, anonymous comrade!</div>
</template>
<script setup lang="ts">
import { useUserService } from './UserService';
const { userModel } = useUserService();
</script>

```


