The author of the Vue router, @posva, created an alternative to Vuex, with a nice Composition API.
The library is called Pinia, and it comes with the cutest logo.

The project started as an experiment for Vuex v5, but it was so good (and with such a cute name
and logo) that it ended up being the official recommendation for the state-management library of
Vue.

As you can imagine, the philosophy is quite similar to Vuex. You define a store (or many) with
defineStore. This store has a state and actions. It can have getters too. But it does not have
mutations like Vuex: it just has actions. I really like that about Pinia: mutations tend to be a lot of
unnecessary and quite verbose code. The other main difference is that Pinia is fully type-safe, and
has a very nice composition API. In fact, you can write your store as a function, pretty much how
you write your components (the alternative is to use an object with state, getters and actions
properties, but I prefer the function version).

If we take the same example, here is how the store looks like:

```js
export const useAppStore = defineStore('user', () => {
const userModel = ref<UserModel | null>(null);
async function login(credentials: { name: string; password: string }) {
// call the backend with the credentials
// ...
userModel.value = response.data;
}
function logout() {
userModel.value = null;
}
return { userModel, login, logout };
});
```

Then we tell our application to use Pinia:

```js
createApp(App)
.use(createPinia())
.use(routerPlugin)
.mount('#app');
```

And we can use the store in our components (note that to keep the reactivity, you need to use
storeToRefs() when destructuring the store):

```js
import { storeToRefs } from 'pinia';
const store = useAppStore();
const { userModel } = storeToRefs(store);
```

storeToRefs() is very similar to toRefs() (that you can use here as well), but it only returns the
reactive properties (and not the methods of the store).

When you want to modify the state, you don’t need a mutation, you can simply mutate the state
(without having to bother with .value, because the store itself is wrapped with reactive):

```js
const store = useAppStore();
function logoutDirectModification() {
store.userModel = null;
}
```

