The props object can’t be mutated in the child component. You can mutate the content of a prop if it is an object or an array, but this is considered a bad practice. When a component wants to notify its parent component that something has to be changed, however, it can emit an event. The parent can listen to this event and update its state accordingly.

How do we emit such an event? It turns out that setup(props) can have a second parameter, the context: setup(props, context). context is an object containing several things, and we’ll see some of them later. But right now, we’re only interested in the emit function it contains, so we can use destructuring:

```js
<template>
  <div @click="selectPony()">
    <h2 :style="{ color: ponyModel.color }">{{ ponyModel.name }}</h2>
  </div>
</template>
<script lang="ts">
  import { defineComponent, PropType } from 'vue';
  import { PonyModel } from '@/models/PonyModel';
  export default defineComponent({
  name: 'Pony',
  props: {
  ponyModel: {
  type: Object as PropType<PonyModel>,
  required: true
  }
  },
  emits: {
  // We declare that the only event emitted by the component will be 'selected'
  // and that the emitted value is of type `PonyModel`
  // The function is a validator of the event argument, checked by Vue in
  development mode
  selected: (pony: PonyModel) => pony.color !== 'PURPLE'
  },
  setup(props, { emit }) {
  function selectPony() {
  // we emit a 'selected' event containing the pony entity
  emit('selected', props.ponyModel);
  }
  return { selectPony };
  }
  });
</script>
```



The emits property is optional, but it’s nice to have. At compile time, TypeScript
will check that you only emit the events that are declared in the emits property,
and that the events you emit have the appropriate type. In this example, the
compilation would thus fail if you emit an event that isn’t named selected, or if the
event is not a PonyModel. At runtime, during development only, Vue also checks that
the given predicate accepts the emitted events. If it doesn’t, the event will still be
emitted, but you’ll get a warning in the console. In this example, you’ll thus get a
warning if you emit a purple pony. If you don’t want to validate the event value,
you can just return true in the predicate function.

