
Vue comes with directives, a powerful feature that we already used with v-bind and v-on. But there are some others, some really useful, and others which are good to know but less frequently used.

Let’s start with the one you’re going to use daily: v-if.

_10.1. Conditions in templates with_ _v-if_

```
<div v-if="user.role === 'ADMIN'">
  <h2>Admin {{ user.name }}</h2>
</div>
<div v-else-if="user.role === 'ACCOUNTANT'">
  <h2>Accountant</h2>
</div>
<div v-else-if="user.role === 'DEVELOPER'">
  <h2>Developer</h2>
</div>
<div v-else>
  <h2>Hello</h2>
</div>

```

_10.2. Hide content with_ _v-show_

_v-if_ _really destroys the DOM and listeners, and re-creates them. So it has a slightly bigger cost_

_when the condition changes, but when it is false, there is no DOM to watch for Vue. It is usually_

_better for hiding vast part of a template, when the condition does not change really often._

_•_ _v-show_ _only hides with CSS the elements, so Vue still watches them, but it is faster to hide/show,_

_as it is just CSS._

10.3. Render only once with v-once

As we are touching the performance topic, the v-once directive can be useful. When applied to an element, the element and all its children will only render once, and then Vue will stop caring about updating this part.
It can be super useful for applications displaying big pages with components that display data that do not change:

```
<div v-once>
<!-- never updates, even if `user.name` changes-->
<h2>Admin {{ user.name }}</h2>
</div>
```

10.4. Repeating elements with v-for

Working with real data will inevitably lead you to display a list of something. That’s when v-for
proves very useful: it allows instantiating one DOM element per item in a collection. Our Races
component contains a property races, returned by the setup() function, which, as you can probably guess, is an array of races to display.

```
<ul>
  <li v-for="race in races">{{ race.name }}</li>
</ul>
```

```
<ul>
  <li v-for="race of races">{{ race.name }}</li>
</ul>
```

If our collection gains a new item, Vue automatically adds a new li. Same thing if the races
collection is re-ordered, or if one or several items are dropped.

Note that the good practice is to help Vue keep track of which item from the array corresponds to which DOM element. We’ll come back to that, but you can add a :key binding to let Vue know which is which. Here, the ID of the race is a good candidate:

Be careful though: if the object comes from the server as JSON, there is no guarantee regarding the order of the properties in the object. So it’s usually best to stick to arrays when the order matters.

```js
<ul>
<li v-for="number in 3" :key="number">{{ number }}</li>
</ul>
```


