Be careful with premature optimization. Always measure before and after. Beware
off the benchmarks you find on the internets: it’s pretty easy to make them say
what the authors want.
Performances can mean a lot of things: speed, CPU usage (battery consumption), memory
pressure…
Everything is not important for everybody: you have different needs if you are programming for a
mobile website, an e-commerce platform, or a classic CRUD application.
Performances can also be split into different categories, that, once more, won’t all matter to you:
first load, reload, and runtime performances.
First load is when you open an application for the first time. Reload is when you come back to that
application. Runtime performances is what happens when the application is running. Some of the
following recommendations are very generic, and could be applied to any framework. We wrote
them down because we think it’s worth knowing. And because when you talk about performances,
the framework is sometimes the bottleneck, but really (really) often not.

30.1. First load
When you load a modern Web application in your browser, a few things happen. First, the
index.html is loaded and parsed by the browser. Then the JS scripts and other assets referenced are
fetched. When one of the assets is received, the browser parses it, and executes it if it is a JS file.
30.2. Asset sizes
So the first tip is very obvious: be careful with your asset sizes!
The assets loading phase depends on how many assets you want to load. A lot will be slow. Big ones
will be slow. Especially if the network is not that good, which happens more often than you think:
you might test your application on an optical fiber connection, but some of your actual users might
be in the middle of nowhere, using slow 3G. Here is what you can do.

30.3. Bundle your application
When you write your Vue application, you have imports all over the place, and your code is split
across hundreds of files. But you don’t want your users to load hundreds of files! So before shipping
your application, you want to make a "bundle": group all the JavaScript files into one file.
Rollup (for Vite) or Webpack (for the CLI) jobs are to take all your JavaScript files (and CSS, and
template HTML files) and build bundles.
They are not easy tools to master, but Vite and the Vue CLI do a pretty good job at hiding their
complexity. If you don’t use Vite or the CLI, you can build your application with Rollup or Webpack
directly, or you can pick another tool that may produce even better results. But be warned that this
requires quite a lot of expertise (and work) to not mess things up, just to save a few extra kilobytes.
I would recommend staying with Vite (ideally) or the CLI.
The team working on these tools are doing a very good job keeping up with the latest Vue,
TypeScript and bundler releases.

30.4. Tree-shaking
Rollup and Webpack (or other tools you use) start from the entry point of your application (the
main.ts file generated for you), then resolves all the imports tree, and outputs the bundle. This is
cool because the bundle will only contain the files from your codebase and your third party
libraries that have been imported. The rest is not embedded. So even if you have a dependency in
your package.json that you don’t use anymore (so you don’t import it anymore), it will not end up in
the bundle.
It’s even a bit smarter than that. If you have a file utils exporting two functions, let’s say start()
and stop(), and then only import start() into the rest of the application, but never stop(), then the
bundler only puts start() in the final bundle, and drops stop(). This process is called tree-shaking.
And every framework and library in the JavaScript ecosystem is fighting hard to be tree-shakable!
In theory, it means that your final bundle contains only what is really needed! But in practice,
bundlers are a bit conservative, and can’t figure out some stuff. For example, if you have a class
Pony with two methods eat and run, but you only use run, the code of the eat method will be in the
final bundle. So it’s not perfect, but it does a good job.

30.5. Minification and dead code elimination
When your bundle has been built, the code is usually minified and dead code will be eliminated.
That means all variables, method names, class names… are renamed to use a one or two characters
name through the entire codebase. This is a bit scary and sounds like it could break things, but
ESBuild or Terser have been doing a great job. They will also eliminate dead code that they can
find.

30.6. Other assets
While the above sections were about JS specifically, your application also contains other assets, like
styles, images, fonts… You should have the same concerns about them, and do your best to keep
them at a reasonable size. Applying all kinds of crazy techniques to optimize your JS bundle sizes,
but loading several MBs of images, wouldn’t have a big impact on your page loading time and your
bandwidth! As this is not really the scope of this ebook, I won’t dig into this topic, but let me point
out a great online resource by Addy Osmani about image optimization: Essential Image
Optimization.
30.7. Compression
All the modern browsers accept a compressed version of an asset when they ask the server for it.
That means you can serve a compressed version to your users, and the browser will unzip it before
parsing it. This is a must-do because it will save you tons of bandwidth and loading time!
Every server on the market gives the option of activating the compression of assets. Generally the
first user to request an asset will pay the cost of the compression on the fly, and then the following
ones will receive the compressed asset directly.
The most common compression algorithm used is GZIP, but some others like Brotli are also popular.

30.8. Lazy-loading
Sometimes, despite doing your best to keep your JS bundle small, you end up with a big file because
your app has grown to several dozens of components, using various third party libraries. And not
only will this big bundle increase the time needed to fetch the JavaScript, it will also increase the
time needed to parse it and execute it.
One common solution to this problem is to use lazy-loading. It means that instead of having a big
bundle of JavaScript, you split your application into several parts and tell the bundler to split it in
several bundles.
The good news is that Vue (and its router) makes this task relatively easy to achieve. You can read
our chapter about lazy-loading if you want to learn more.
Lazy-loading can vastly improve the loading time, as you can make the first bundle really small,
with only what’s needed to display the home page, and let Vue load the rest on demand when your
user navigates to another part.

30.9. Server side rendering
I’d like to start by saying that this technique is for 0.0001% of you. Server side rendering (or
universal rendering) is the technique that consists of pre-rendering the application on the server
before serving it to the users. With this, when a user asks for /dashboard, she will receive a prerendered
version of the dashboard, instead of receiving index.html and then letting the router do its
job after Vue has finished to start.
It can lead to vast improvements in perceived startup time. Vue offers a built-in support that allows
you to run the application not in a browser but on a server. You can then pre-render the pages and
serve them to your users. The page will display very fast and then Vue will start its job and run as
usual.
It’s also a big win if you want your web site to be crawlable by search engines which don’t execute
JavaScript, since you can serve them pre-rendered pages, instead of a blank page.
It’s also a way to display previews of your website on social networks like Twitter or Facebook.
These sites will try to screenshot the shared URL, but since they don’t execute JavaScript, they won’t
see anything of your dynamically generated page, unless you serve them a page generated on the
server. So if you want to be sure that the preview is perfect, like if you are running a news site, or
an e-commerce site, you need to add server-side rendering.
The bad news is that it can increase the complexity of your application. You need to setup your
server and think about the strategy you want to adopt. Do you want to pre-render all pages or just a
few? Do you want to pre-render the whole page, with the data fetching and authorization check it
will need, or just some critical parts of the page? Do you want to pre-render them on build, or to
pre-render them on demand and cache them? Do you want to do this for all the possible profiles
and languages or just some? All these questions depend on the type of application you are building,
and the effort can vary greatly depending on your goal.
So, again, I would advise you to use server side rendering only if it is critical for your application,
and not based on the hype…

30.10. Caching for reloads
Once your user has opened the application once, it’s possible to speed up the subsequent visits
You should always cache the assets of your application (images, styles, JS bundles…). This is done by
configuring your server and leveraging the Cache-Control and ETag headers. All the servers on the
market allow you to do so. You can also use a CDN for this purpose, which will additionally allow
the users to download the assets from a server close to their location. If you do so, the next time
your users open the application, the browser won’t have to send a request to fetch the assets
because it will have them already!
But a cache is always tricky: you need to have a way to tell the browser "hey, I deployed a new
version in production, please fetch the new assets!".
The easiest way to do this is to have a different name for the asset you updated. That means instead
of deploying an asset named main.js, you deploy main.xxxx.js where xxxx is a unique identifier.
This technique is called cache busting. And, again, Vite and the CLI are there for you: in production
mode, they will name all your assets with a unique hash, derived from the content of the file. They
also automatically update the sources of the scripts in index.html to reflect the unique names, the
sources of the fonts, the sources of the stylesheets, etc.
If you use Vite or the CLI, you can safely deploy a new version and cache everything, except the
index.html (as this will contain the links to the fresh assets deployed)!

30.11. Runtime performances
Vue’s magic relies on its reactivity system and VDOM rendering: the framework automatically
detects changes in the state of the application and updates the DOM accordingly. So, as a general
rule of thumb, you’ll want to help Vue and limit the change detection triggering and the amount of
DOM to update/create/delete.
To be honest, most applications will be fine, even under heavy load. Read the chapter about Vue
under the hood if you want to get a grasp on how Vue works.
But some of us will have to recode Excel in the browser for their enterprise, or will have a
component with a tree displaying 10,000 customers, or another unreasonable thing to do in a
browser. These things are tricky, whatever framework you use. They tend to update a lot of DOM,
and have to check a lot of components. A few of the following tricks can help.
\
30.12 key in v-for

This is a simple tip that can really speed things up on v-for: add a key. To understand why, let me
explain how modern JS frameworks (at least all major ones) handle collections. When you have a
collection of 3 races and want to display them in a list, you’ll write something like:

```js
<ul>
<li v-for="race in races">{{ race.name }}</li>
</ul>
```

When you add a new race, Vue will add a DOM node in the proper position. If you update the name
of one of the ponies, Vue will change just the text content of the right li.
How does it do that? By keeping track of which DOM node references which object reference. Vue
will have an internal representation looking like:

```js
node li 1 -> race #e435 // { id: 3, name: London }
node li 2 -> race #8fa4 // { id: 4, name: Paris }
```

works great, and if you change an object for another one, Vue will destroy the node and build
another one.

```js
node li 1 (recreated) -> race #c1ea // { id: 1, name: Berlin }
node li 2 -> race #8fa4 // { id: 4, name: Paris }
```

If the whole collection is updated with new objects, the complete DOM list will be destroyed and
recreated. Which is fine, except when you just refresh a list with almost the same content: in that
case, Vue destroys the complete node list and recreates it, even if there is no need to. For example,
when you fetch the same results from the server, you will have the same content, but different
references as your collection will have been recreated.

The solution for this use-case is to help Vue track the objects, not by their references, but by
something that you know will identify the object, typically an ID.


```js
<ul>
<li v-for="race in races" :key="race.id">{{ race.name }}</li>
</ul>
```

With this key, Vue will only recreate a DOM node if the id of the race changes. On a very big list
which doesn’t change much, it can save a ton of DOM deletions/creations. Anyway, it’s quite cheap
to implement and doesn’t have cons, so don’t hesitate to use it. It’s also a requirement if you want to
use animations. If a DOM element’s style is supposed to be animated (by transitioning smoothly
from the previous value to the new one), and the list of races is replaced by a new one when
refreshed, then key is a must: without it, the animation will never happen, because the style of the
element never changes. Instead, it’s the element itself which is being replaced by Vue.

30.13. v-memo

Vue 3.2 introduced another trick to help with performances: the v-memo directive, which allows you
to aggressively optimize templates in some edge cases. You can think of v-memo as an equivalent of
shouldComponentUpdate in React, but available for elements or components in Vue.

```js
<ul>
<li v-for="race in races" :key="race.id" v-memo="[race.name]">{{ race.name }}</li>
</ul>
```

Without v-memo, a change in a property of one of the races, even a non-displayed one like its
country, results in the creation of a new virtual li that will be compared by the virtual DOM
algorithm to the previous one (check the chapter about how Vue works under the hood if you want
to learn more about this).

With v-memo, the virtual element is not recreated, and the previous one is re-used, except when the
conditions of v-memo (here, the name of the race) change. This may look like a small improvement,
but it’s actually a huge improvement in performance if you render a large list of elements. The
popular (although debatable) js frameworks performance benchmark has a benchmark testing this
particular use-case, and Vue v3.2 outperforms most frameworks with this new feature, without the
need to create a dedicated component for the row and add tricks to improve the performances (like
shouldComponentUpdate in React).

You can see that v-memo accepts an array of conditions, so you can write something like:

```js
<ul>
<li v-for="race in races" :key="race.id" v-memo="[race.name, selectedRaceId ===
race.id]">
<span :class="{ selected: selectedRaceId === race.id }">{{ race.name }}</span>
</li>
</ul>
```

Then the li will be updated if either the race’s name changes or if the selected race check has a
different result.

Note that if your list displays a property not listed in the conditions of v-memo, the list won’t be
updated when this property changes:

```js
<ul>
<li v-for="race in races" :key="race.id" v-memo="[race.name]">{{ race.name }} - {{
race.country }}</li>
</ul>
```

If the country of a race changes, the list won’t update. If, later, the name of the race changes, then
the updated list will display the new name and the new country.

This trick is really only useful for very large list, and you should not need it for more typical usecases.

30.14. Conclusion
This chapter hopefully taught you some techniques which can help solve performance problems.
But remember the golden rules of performance optimization:
• don’t
• don’t… yet
• profile before optimizing.
As a famous computer scientist said:
premature optimization is the root of all evil.
— Donald Knuth
So strive to make the code as simple and correct and readable as possible, and only start thinking
about profiling, then optimizing, if you have a proven performance problem.










