Vue offers a defineProps helper that you can use to define your props. It’s a compile-time helper (a macro), so you don’t need to import it in your code: Vue automatically understands it when it compiles the component.

defineProps returns the props:

```js
const props = defineProps({
ponyModel: {
type: Object as PropType<PonyModel>,
required: true
},
isRunning: {
type: Boolean,
default: false
}
});
```

defineProps receives the former props declaration as a parameter. But we can do even better for TypeScript users!



defineProps is generically typed: you can call it without a parameter, but specify an interface as the "shape" of the props. No more horrible Object as PropType Something to write! We can use proper TypeScript types, and add ? to mark a prop as not required ὠ.

```js
const props = defineProps<{
ponyModel: PonyModel;
isRunning?: boolean;
}>();
```


We lost a bit of information though. In the previous version, we could specify that isRunning had a default value of false. To have the same behavior, we can use the withDefaults helper:

```js
interface Props {
ponyModel: PonyModel;
isRunning?: boolean;
}
const props = withDefaults(defineProps<Props>(), { isRunning: false });
```

Or even simpler, since Vue 3.2.20 and its reactivityTransform option, we can destructure and give a default value to a prop directly:

```js
interface Props {
ponyModel: PonyModel;
isRunning?: boolean;
}
```

```js
const { ponyModel, isRunning = false } = defineProps<Props>();
```

This allows to use the props directly, without the need of props.:

```js
const ponyImageUrl = computed(() => `/pony-${ponyModel.color}${isRunning ? '-running'
: ''}.gif`);
```

The last remaining syntax to migrate is the emits declaration.

**15.4 defineEmits**

Vue offers a defineEmits helper, very similar to the defineProps helper. defineEmits returns the emit function:

```js
const emit = defineEmits({
selected: () => true
});
```

Or even better, with TypeScript:

```js
const emit = defineEmits<{
selected: [];
}>();
```

The full component declaration is 10 lines shorter. Not a bad reduction for a ~30 lines component! It’s easier to read, and plays better with TypeScript. It does feel a bit weird to have everything automatically exposed to the template, without writing return though, but you get used to it.



